these are the heart of your system hi
and welcome back to another extreme
overclocking video in today's video we
are going to cover FX 8350 extreme
overclocking I bought the CPU many years
ago and it was also the only CPU I
bought the only FX 8350 and I was really
lucky with this sample because it's
extremely good it's one of the best I've
ever seen back then it was like in the
top 15 of the highest ever reached
frequencies with CPUs I'm not sure which
rank it is today maybe it's still top 20
we will try to reproduce the scores I
did like four or five six years ago the
reason why I want to revisit the CPU is
because it has been sitting in a tray
for many years I don't think it degraded
it wouldn't make any kind of sense
because I was practically not using the
CPU at all and also back then I was
using the Asus crosshair 5 formula and
now I have an Asus 97 pro gaming our
main board which should be better it has
a much better VRM and therefore maybe we
can squeeze a little bit more out of the
CPU I also attached a very nice new
feature to this this small PCB let's
take a closer look at this quick look at
the setup 970 pro gaming era currently
running with an AMD box cooler we have 2
dims Corsa ventures and Corsair engines
2666 very good dims probably some of the
best ddr3 dimms that have ever been made
an nvme drive where Windows 10 is
running from and then we have this small
pin header right here typically those
pin headers are not populated on a stock
board it's just empty solder pads but I
attached a three pins to it and on a
cable we have an elm or EB C 2 PCB the
ELMO EB C is using I - C or I squared C
depending how you want to call it
I used the connection number one and
then collect find devices then it
detected the CH l 83 28 v RM controller
it's also called I think the ASP 1000 C
something like that on the chip directly
anyway if we click on the voltage
controller on the Left we can access it
over I to see and the PM bus we have all
kind of values which we can read out
also manually change for example
switching frequency 300 kilohertz
currently you can read out some load
line calibration values really
interesting stuff you can read out right
here if you click on a PM bus we get
full access and monitoring of for
example CPU voltage and also output
power which is kind of interesting I'm
not sure what we know this doing in the
background right here but you can see
like idle power it's just a few watts
and then in between it cycles back up to
like 10 20 watt no idea what the windows
is doing right there anyway we can for
example also access and change the CPU
voltage which is the main thing we are
going to need especially on some boards
all the board's where you don't have
lnto bios and you have like voltage
limitations sometimes you cannot exceed
for example 1.5 5 volt here you can see
if I just scroll down I could
theoretically set 2.5 volt I mean this
would end the CPU pretty much something
I want to avoid currently it's set to
1.3 - I can just lower it to 1.3 for
example if I want to you have to set the
gamer mode to enabled PID type override
apply changes and then for example
output voltage is currently monitored
right here it's 1.3 to 6
if I apply it goes down to 1.3 world so
that's a very very helpful software and
feature by the way the EBC 2 also allows
additional features like spi BIOS flash
you can theoretically use this to flash
bios versions which are not meant for
your mainboard I remember back then when
we did the epic overclocking we also
used the EVC 2 and at that point we were
flashing and msi bios on an asus port
which was only possible with the EBC 2
and then it also has additional features
where you can change voltage test not
only with digital controllers like on
this one but also on analog stuff
similar to Asus Hotwire I think we can
cover that in an additional video if
you're interested in that it's a very
very helpful device so if you're
interested in this like extreme
overclocking stuff maybe go to a Moore's
website and check it out in today's
video we are mainly using it to keep
track of power consumption and also to
be able to change voltages on-the-fly
sometimes if you
really running on the edge and CPU is
unstable I don't know it 8 gigahertz
sometimes it looks like it crashed but
it didn't really crash sometimes if you
manage to increase the voltage slightly
then the system gets back you can kind
of recover it and keep going with the
overclock that's why external
overclocking over the software can be
really helpful that's why I'm going to
use this device today I'm not sure if I
should hate myself more or the AMD
socket again in the CPU stock so the
cooler and unfortunately when I pulled
it all that bent some pins I really hope
I can bend them back and rescue the CPU
this would be this would suck so hard
[Music]
CPU back in the socket I hope everything
still works put on the ln2 container
quickly for this test before we're going
to insulate the mainboard and prepare it
for ln2 also have an PCI debug card on
there simply going to test if everything
still works before we start with the
preparation looks good yeah everything
is fine all of those older AMD FX CPUs
like the ad 350 or 95 70 or like an FX
4300 all of those can run full pot means
we can go down to just about minus 190
degrees Celsius therefore we will have
some ice building up some condensation
in this area not really any in this area
not really an issue typically because
it's too cold in here we won't have any
kind of condensation worst case we would
have some ice on there ice is not
electrically conductive therefore
usually doesn't cause that many issues
however in a region of heat things where
parts are underneath that are generating
heat you can easily get like an transfer
layer where you have ice on top and then
condensation on the bottom same goes for
the vrm that's why we will have to
remove the heating's make sure that all
the parts underneath will be insulated
[Music]
sometimes if you remove heat things
which are using thermal pets it looks
like this underneath it looks like
something is wet and that's just silicon
oil which comes out from those thermal
pads it's something that's happening
very often it's nothing dangerous the
silicon oil is not conductive therefore
no problem but we're going to use liquid
rubber insulation which is kind of like
paint therefore we will use some acetone
to first remove those silicon oil
residues
[Music]
almost good to go insulation is dry most
of the components are back in place the
only last things which are missing is
thermal paste on the CPU obviously the
CPU cooling device temperature probe
inside the CPU cooler and then a little
bit of paper towel around CPU cooler to
catch any kind of condensation drops and
anyway good to go
everything is ready to go you can
probably hear it there is already a tiny
amount of liquid nitrogen in the
container but mainly to maintain
temperature around 30 degrees Celsius in
the container right now just running the
Cinebench r15 multi to see if everything
is stable with our base setting you can
see the CPUs clock to 3 gigahertz across
all the cores with just about 1.5 volt
which is obviously too much for three
gigahertz across all cores but we will
keep all modules at this speed while we
will only up probably the second or
third module we will have to figure out
which one is the best memory is running
at 2,000 megahertz cl9 more EVC software
is also running very smoothly you can
see currently we're running about 160
watt in Sandwich r15 and the temperature
is if we move to the right about you
know 78 degree Celsius in the VM which
is fine there's no air flow on it right
now and quite a bit of current therefore
that should be fine
[Music]
unfortunately as usual with the extreme
overclocking things are not going as
smooth I'm currently sitting at one
minus 130 degree Celsius and if I hit
about minus 160 it shuts down and those
specific CPUs should not have this and
I'm trying to figure out what exactly is
wrong yeah typical I think I tried it
like 15 times before disabling stuff
changing like PCIe frequency nothing
help disable some onboard devices and
now it seems to be working
awesome great I thought I could show you
how it's not working but now it's
working even better and that's how easy
we could get to seven gigahertz
currently running 1.9 volt on vcore in
my abc I said 1.5 volt it's currently
loading with about 50 to 70 watts about
30 amps for EMS erm temperature cannot
go lower than 1 degree Celsius in
readout
[Music]
[Applause]
there we go 8 gigahertz on the cpu 8.1
gigahertz actually there you can also
get an idea how much stress it can be
for a mainboard to run at those kind of
temperatures that's mainly related to
different PCB layers different copper
layers that are running through the
board and then you have different
thermal expansion rates because it's not
always the same amount of copper at
every single position and running it at
minus 180 degree Celsius can cause stuff
like that
I've been trying it about 10 times
already to hit the 8.2 gigahertz mark
still working on it but system is still
running nice and smoothly even though
there's no insulation
[Music]
still really happy with the system I
think I've been running for like two or
three hours right now I mean there's
building there's some ice building up on
the system but seems to be no problem
temperature - 175 at least that's what a
temperature probe is reading it should
be colder than that and out of pure
curiosity I'm just running as a matter
of 15 single-threaded at 7.5 gigahertz
and I think or my assumption would be
that even at this speed this CPU should
be slower than a current rising at stock
172 points that's more than I thought
that's just above of 4770k let's see if
we can squeeze out a little bit more
during the benchmark and see the power
consumption it's just about 100 watt and
considering that we're only running a
single core that really is a lot
unfortunately that's already the end of
the video because I simply ran out of
ln2 I only had 30 litres and they also
had to use them for a different CPU and
you will see that video coming up in a
few weeks
stay tuned for that so much for the 8350
revisit very very nice CPU it's still a
lot of fun because it's very unique it's
only this specific platform and those
CPUs which can achieve those very very
high frequencies even I mean nowadays
Rison there is no chance they end up at
like five point five gigahertz with
Ellen 2 maybe 6 gigahertz if you do like
validation stuff but not much higher
recent interviews can hit just above 7
gigahertz with Ellen - maybe like seven
point five seven point seven on liquid
helium which is obviously something I
cannot use here but 8350 is still a lot
of fun to play around today and it's
also interesting that even if you push
the CPU to almost 80 Hertz on a single
core it cannot get a single core
performance of like a risin 3000 CPU it
just shows how much ahead horizon 3000
is back comparing this to the am-3
platform so much about this video we
will end this video with some close-up
shots of this beautiful system thanks
for joining in and see you next time bye
[Music]
you